.TH "FLEPIMOP PATCH" "1" "2025-04-30" "1" "flepimop patch Manual"
.SH NAME
flepimop\-patch \- Merge configuration files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flepimop patch
[OPTIONS] [CONFIG_FILES]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
    Merge configuration files.
.PP
    This command will merge multiple config files together by overriding the top level
    keys in config files. The order of the config files is important, as the last file
    has the highest priority and the first has the lowest.
.PP
    A brief example of the command is shown below using the sample config files from the
    `examples/tutorials` directory. The command will merge the two files together and
    print the resulting configuration to the console.
.PP
    
    ```bash
        $ flepimop patch config_sample_2pop_modifiers_part.yml config_sample_2pop_outcomes_part.yml > config_sample_2pop_patched.yml
        $ cat config_sample_2pop_patched.yml
        write_csv: false
        jobs: 14
        write_parquet: true
        first_sim_index: 1
        config_src: [config_sample_2pop_modifiers_part.yml, config_sample_2pop_outcomes_part.yml]
        seir_modifiers:
            scenarios: [Ro_lockdown, Ro_all]
            modifiers:
                Ro_lockdown:
                    method: SinglePeriodModifier
                    parameter: Ro
                    period_start_date: 2020-03-15
                    period_end_date: 2020-05-01
                    subpop: all
                    value: 0.4
                Ro_relax:
                    method: SinglePeriodModifier
                    parameter: Ro
                    period_start_date: 2020-05-01
                    period_end_date: 2020-08-31
                    subpop: all
                    value: 0.8
                Ro_all:
                    method: StackedModifier
                    modifiers: [Ro_lockdown, Ro_relax]
        outcome_modifiers:
            scenarios: [test_limits]
            modifiers:
                test_limits:
                    method: SinglePeriodModifier
                    parameter: incidCase::probability
                    subpop: all
                    period_start_date: 2020-02-01
                    period_end_date: 2020-06-01
                    value: 0.5
        outcomes:
            method: delayframe
            outcomes:
                incidCase:
                    source:
                        incidence:
                            infection_stage: I
                    probability:
                        value: 0.5
                    delay:
                        value: 5
                incidHosp:
                    source:
                        incidence:
                            infection_stage: I
                    probability:
                        value: 0.05
                    delay:
                        value: 7
                    duration:
                        value: 10
                        name: currHosp
                incidDeath:
                    source: incidHosp
                    probability:
                        value: 0.2
                    delay:
                        value: 14
    ```
    
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c,\fP \-\-config PATH
Deprecated: configuration file(s) for this simulation
.TP
\fB\-p,\fP \-\-populations TEXT
Population(s) to run use in simulation.
.TP
\fB\-s,\fP \-\-seir_modifiers_scenarios TEXT
override/select the transmission scenario(s) to run
.TP
\fB\-d,\fP \-\-outcome_modifiers_scenarios TEXT
override/select the outcome scenario(s) to run
.TP
\fB\-j,\fP \-\-jobs INTEGER RANGE
the parallelization factor  [default: 4; x>=1]
.TP
\fB\-n,\fP \-\-nslots INTEGER RANGE
override the # of simulation runs in the config file  [x>=1]
.TP
\fB\-\-in\-id\fP TEXT
Unique identifier for the run
.TP
\fB\-\-out\-id\fP TEXT
Unique identifier for the run
.TP
\fB\-\-in\-prefix\fP TEXT
unique identifier for the run
.TP
\fB\-i,\fP \-\-first_sim_index INTEGER RANGE
The index of the first simulation  [default: 1; x>=1]
.TP
\fB\-m,\fP \-\-method TEXT
If provided, overrides seir::integration::method
.TP
\fB\-\-write\-csv\fP / \-\-no\-write\-csv
write csv output?  [default: no-write-csv]
.TP
\fB\-\-write\-parquet\fP / \-\-no\-write\-parquet
write parquet output?  [default: write-parquet]
