# Git and GitHub Usage

We now use a modified gitflow style workflow for working with git and GitHub. For a detailed overview of this topic please refer to [Atlassian's article on Gitflow workflow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow).


## New Features

New features should be developed in a new branch checked out from the `dev` branch and then merged back into the `dev` branch via a PR on GitHub when ready for review. These feature branches can be deleted after merging into `dev`, unless someone from operations requests that it be kept around. For example, operations may want to merge the feature into their operational branch to get new functionality in advance of a release. By convention feature branches should be prefixed with `feature/<GitHub issue>/`, I.e. `feature/99/cool-new-thing`.


## Hot Fixes

Hot fixes should be developed in a new branch checked out from the `main` branch and merged back into the `main` branch via a PR on GitHub when ready for review. After successfully merging into `main` the hot fix branch should then be merged into `dev`, making appropriate adjustments to stabilize the feature. The priority for hot fixes is to correct a major issue quickly, so it is okay to delay detailed testing/documentation until merging into `dev`. By convention hot fix branches should be prefixed with `hotfix/`, I.e. `hotfix/important-fix-to-something`, and then converted into a feature branch after merging into main.


## Creating Releases

Periodically releases will be created by merging the `dev` branch into `main` via a PR on GitHub and creating a new release the `main` branch after merging. These PRs should avoid discussion of individual feature changes, those discussions should be reserved for and handled in the feature PRs. If there is a feature that poses a significant problem in the process of creating a new release those changes should be treated like a new feature. The main purpose of this PR is to:

1. Resolve merge conflicts generated by hot fixes,
2. Making minor edits to documentation to make it clearer or more cohesive, and
3. Updating the `NEWS.md` file with a summary of the changes included in the release.


## Operations

Operational work should be developed in a new branch checked out from the `main` branch if there are modifications needed to the `flepiMoP` codebase. Pre-released features can be merged directly into this operational branch from the corresponding feature branch as needed via a git merge or rebase not a GitHub PR. After the operational cycle is over, the operations branch **should not** be deleted, instead should be kept around for archival reasons. Operational work needs to move quickly and usually does not involve documenting or testing code and is therefore unsuitable for merging into `dev` or `main` directly. Instead potential features should be extracted from an operations branch into a feature branch using [git cherry-pick](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-cherry-pick) and then modified into an appropriates state for merging into `dev` like a feature branch. By convention operations branch names should be prefixed with `operations/`, I.e. `operations/flu-SMH-2023-24`.
